Christopher Schmidt 
236 Allston St.
Cambridge, MA 02139
617-595-3481
crschmidt@crschmidt.net

Employment History:

Principal Software Engineer (formerly: Senior Software Engineer)
Nokia                                                   April 2010-Present
Work with Search Quality team to evaluate and improve quality of Local Search.
Developed and maintained a tool for accepting work from primarily unskilled
workers to assist in the development of quality evaluation, and helped to 
develop and present evaluation of search quality through this manually 
annotated data. Manage a team of 5 working on extracting user interactions
for analysis and search quality improvement, using 'big data' tools (like 
Hadoop) to analyze logs from a service with over 2 million daily users.
Work to build a system for improved integration of place data for 
tens of millions of places from dozens of different providers, integrating
user generated content with basic and rich content to provide a better
user experience.

Software Developer
MetaCarta                                               June 2006-April 2010
Work with the CTO to create compelling and interesting demonstrations of 
MetaCarta's geographic search and geographic document tagging technologies.
Developed an on-demand local search and document tagging service to support
active usage via the web and helped develop and create web service APIs to 
provide better access for customers attempting to use the MetaCarta APIs.
Participated in the development of three separate open source projects from
the ground up: OpenLayers, TileCache, and FeatureServer, each of which is now
a fully community-run open source project under OSGeo. 

Developer
Ning                                                    Sept 2005-June 2006
Developed, updated, maintained, and improved core set of applications on the 
Ning platform. Included all manner of changes, from usability improvements to
implementation of design and functional changes in the way applications work. 

Developer
wedu                                            June 2004-July 2005
Working in PHP to develop web sites and applications to client specifications.
Communicating with clients to achieve proposed changes to websites, or 
develop and create entirely new ones, using specifications developed alongside 
the client.

More history available upon request. History highlights only relevant positions.


Open Source Experience:

OpenLayers
Project Developer, Project PSC Member               June 2006 - 2011
Helped to found the OpenLayers project. OpenLayers is a Javascript web mapping
library, similar to the Google Maps API, that allows users to browse maps
on the web. OpenLayers has a development community of hundreds, with dozens
directly contributing to the codebase, and has been used in 10s of thousands
of web pages. In addition to helping found the project, currently serve as
a member of the Project Steering Committee in an advisory role.

TileCache
Project Developer                                   Nov 2006 - 2011
Maintainer and primary developer of TileCache, a library designed to allow
simple caching and generation of tiled images for web-based mapping. Have
supported the user and developer community in the primary developer role
since the project's inception following FOSS4G2006.

FeatureServer
Project Developer                                   May 2007 - 2011
Maintainer and primary developer of FeatureServer, a tool for doing simple
presentation of web-based feature storage and editing. FeatureServer was 
an initial attempt to demonstrate that making features available in a 
more RESTful way was a reasonable approach to solving the problem, and has
been used in varying efforts from demonstrating offline browser-based
geographic data editing to efforts in helping support the relief effort
in Haiti in January of 2010.

OpenAerialMap
Developer                                           Nov 2007 - Dec 2008
Helped develop an initial proof-of-concept for the OpenAerialMap project,
providing a repository of free and open aerial imagery. Processed state-wide
(and worldwide) imagery for a number of states as part of a proof of concept
of the OpenAerialMap concept, and helped to develop software to support that
effort.

spatialreference.org
Primary Developer and Maintainer                   July 2007 - Present
Spatialreference.org is a website dedicated to making available spatial
reference information to users. In addition to supporting the common, existing
dictionaries for spatial reference definitions, spatialreference.org also 
supports addition of user-provided spatial references, helping to
build up a common location for spatial reference definitions of all kinds.

Other Experience:

Open Source Geospatial Foundation Board Member      Nov 2009 - 2011
Participate in discussions about the direction and tasks for the Open Source
Geospatial Foundation, including helping to direct the foundation with regard
to allocation of resources, seeking sponsorships from various companies, and
other similar work supporting the non-profit foundation.

OSGeo Foundation Systems Administration Committee     Nov 2009 - Present
Help to maintain the OSGeo server infrastructure, including shared 
SVN, Trac, and web services. Helped to move OSGeo from dated, expensive
infrastructure to infrastructure provided by OSUOSL to support higher
load due to increased usage. Primary point of contact for several high
visibility infrastructure componenets.

References available upon request.
